git init → Creates a Git repository in that folder.

git commit → Records changes and saves them (this is done on all files that are in the stage).

git add → Moves content to the staging area and prepares that file for committing.

git add "(similar name)*" → Adds all files with similar names; can also be used for other commands.

git add -A → Brings all files that exist in the project or path to the staging state.

git status → Shows information about files that have changes, are new, have been committed, or are in the stage.

git log → Displays information about the actions we performed for each commit and the descriptions written for each step.

git diff head → Compares the final project file with the last time we committed the files and shows the differences (shows the last commit; you can show any commit you want).

git diff --staged → Shows the files that are in the stage area and their changes compared to the committed version, with specific details of the changes.

git reset (file name) → Removes a file from the stage area and returns it to the unstaged state.

git checkout -- (file name) → Returns a file that is not staged but has changes to its previous committed state.

git branch → Shows the branches of the project.

What is a branch? → A branch is a separate line of commits from the main commits for adding or fixing something. Later, you need to merge it with subsequent commits. For example, if you have several commits starting from commit 1, you can create a branch from it, add something to it (even if you have commit 2 with additional content not added to the branch), and later merge it with commit 2.

git branch (name) → Creates a new branch.

git checkout (branch name, tag name) → Moves the console to that branch so you can work on it, but you cannot make changes to a tag even with this command.

git merge (branch name) → Brings those changes to the latest commit made (up to this point). Use similar names when you want to use everything together after reset or anything else.

git rm (file name) → Removes that file from Git within its own branch.

git branch -d (branch name) → Deletes that branch.

cat (in terminal) → Shows all the code that exists in the file.

cd .. → Goes back to the previous folder.

git push origin (branch name, tag name) → Transfers commits from PC to a website or any type of host for sharing.

git pull origin (branch name, tag name) → Brings updated files from the website or host that you don't have and places them on your PC.

git push origin --tags → Pushes all tags.

git pull origin --tags → Pulls all tags.

git remote → Basically, remote allows you to place the files you've worked on in multiple locations. For example, it puts them on GitHub and GitLab or elsewhere.

git remote add (custom name) (location for placing information - site, host, something) → Configures the connection to the site or location you want to connect to, where your files will be placed.

git push -u (the name you set for remote) (branch name you're working on) → Merges your branch with the remote (i.e., pushes your branch to the remote).

git remote -v → In Linux, -v shows the content in more detail.

git pull → If connected to a Git repository, automatically updates the files that have changed.

git push → If connected, automatically sends the files you changed on your system to Git.

git show → If you've noticed, when you run git log, each commit has a code next to it. You can copy that code and put it after this command, and it will show all changes and information for that commit. Also, if you have a specific tag and write it, it will show you the information.

git tag → Shows all the tags you've set.

tag → You can add a tag to any commit you have. It's typically used for different versions. It points to a specific commit, but you cannot use it as a branch; it only marks that commit as a specific version. It's just a marker; you cannot make changes to it. For changes, you must work on a branch.

git tag -a (for annotation, e.g., write the version number) -m '' (write the message, e.g., version description) → This is how to create a tag.

git tag -a (commit code goes here for previously committed commits where you want to assign a specific version tag) -m '' → This is for previous commits.

git tag -l "(specific name to identify tags when there are many)" → This is for finding a specific tag.

gpg → A software for digital signatures written with encryption and decryption principles that makes you unique in any action, and no one can forge it unless they have your password.

gpg --list-keys → Shows all keys created with GPG. This exists in Linux.

gpg --gen-key → Creates your unique code, considered a digital signature.

git config --global user.signingkey (your key) → Defines your key to Git for signing files, etc.

gpg --list-keys --keyid-format LONG → Shows your private key for entering in the above command. Your key is displayed in the first line after "/".

git tag -s (version name or any tag) -m '(related message)' → For signing and creating a tag (i.e., the created tag has a signature).

git tag -v (tag name) → Verifies that tag, showing who wrote it and when.

git commit -S -m'' → Signs a commit.

GPG issue → If someone signs, everyone must sign their files.

git help (command you want after git) → Explains the entire command and all its signatures.

git blame → Can show which line or file was changed by whom so you can assign responsibility.

git blame (file of interest in that folder) → Shows the entire file, who changed each line last.

git blame (file of interest in that folder) -L(can specify a single line or from one line to another) → I've explained this, but to avoid being too detailed: to show from which line to which line, you must do it sequentially (e.g., -L8,10 shows lines 8 through 10).

git bisect → Bisect means binary search commit.

git bisect bad → A bug has been found, and you want to see in which commit this bug originated. This command indicates the bug exists in this commit (current commit).

git bisect good [(commit number)] → You show a commit that you believe didn't have the bug. In the end, you need to write that commit number.
